MAG-SQL: Multi-Agent Generative Approach with Soft Schema Linking
and Iterative Sub-SQL Refinement for Text-to-SQL
Wenxuan Xie1*, Gaochen Wu2, Bowen Zhou2†,
1South China University of Technology, 2Tsinghua University,
lancelotxie601@gmail.com, zhoubowen@tsinghua.edu.cn
Abstract
Recent In-Context Learning based methods
have achieved remarkable success in Text-to-
SQL task. However, there is still a large gap
between the performance of these models and
human performance on datasets with complex
database schema and difficult questions, such
as BIRD. Besides, existing work has neglected
to supervise intermediate steps when solving
questions iteratively with question decompo-
sition methods, and the schema linking meth-
ods used in these works are very rudimentary.
To address these issues, we propose MAG-
SQL, a multi-agent generative approach with
soft schema linking and iterative Sub-SQL re-
finement. In our framework, an entity-based
method with tables’ summary is used to select
the columns in database, and a novel targets-
conditions decomposition method is introduced
to decompose those complex questions. Addi-
tionally, we build a iterative generating module
which includes a Sub-SQL Generator and Sub-
SQL Refiner, introducing external oversight
for each step of generation. Through a series
of ablation studies, the effectiveness of each
agent in our framework has been demonstrated.
When evaluated on the BIRD benchmark with
GPT-4, MAG-SQL achieves an execution ac-
curacy of 61.08%, compared to the baseline
accuracy of 46.35% for vanilla GPT-4 and the
baseline accuracy of 57.56% for MAC-SQL.
Besides, our approach makes similar progress
on Spider. The codes are available at https:
//github.com/LancelotXWX/MAG-SQL
1
Introduction
Aiming at automatically generating SQL queries
from natural language questions, Text-to-SQL is a
long-standing challenge which is critical for re-
trieving database values without human efforts
*The work was done when he worked as an intern at Ts-
inghua University, China
†Corresponding authors
Figure 1: A hard example in BIRD. Each data in the
BIRD dataset consists of a natural language questions,
the database schema, related external knowledge, and
gold SQL. The difficulties corresponding to these four
parts are listed above.
(Qin et al., 2022).
There are two main cate-
gories of LLM-based Text-to-SQL approaches, In-
Context Learning method (ICL) and Supervised
Fine-Tuning method (Gao et al., 2023). Earlier
work has reached human levels on the Spider
dataset (Yu et al., 2018), but there is still a large
gap with human performance on the BIRD dataset
(Li et al., 2024b). A hard example in BIRD dataset
is shown in Figure 1.
Previous work has begun to focus on model
collaboration (Wang et al., 2024), but it failed
to break the 60% EX accuracy on BIRD dataset.
Besides, some recent work has achieved signifi-
cant improvements, but these improvements are
1
arXiv:2408.07930v4  [cs.CL]  7 Nov 2024
Figure 2: The overview of our MAG-SQL workflow which consists of four agents: (i)Soft Schema Linker, which
picks out related schema and construct database schema prompt based on soft selection, (ii)Targets-Conditions
Decomposer, which decomposes the question at a fine-grained level, (iii)Sub-SQL Generator, which predict the next
Sub-SQL based on the previous Sub-SQL each time, and (iv)Sub-SQL Refiner, which correct the wrong SQL based
on the self-refine ability of LLMs.
achieved through large-scale fine-tuning on LLMs
(Talaei et al., 2024) or relying on large-scale sam-
pling from LLMs (Lee et al., 2024). In order to
address the challenges of datasets with large-Scale
database like BIRD in a more cost-effective way,
we introduce MAG-SQL, a multi-agent generative
approach connecting natural language questions
with database queries. The multi-agents workflow
of our method is shown in Figure 2.
For the column selection, we choose soft se-
lection approach and present an Entity-based
Schema Linking Method which is enhanced by
Table Summarization and Value Retrieval. To
decompose a complex question into a series of cas-
cading sub-questions, we propose a new method
called Targets-Conditions Decomposition. For
SQL generation, we design an Iterative Gener-
ating Module, where the generator generates the
next Sub-SQL based on the previous Sub-SQL with
Chain of Thoughts prompting, and each generated
Sub-SQL has to be checked and corrected by the
Refiner.
We have successively evaluated MAG-SQL on
the BIRD dataset and Spider dataset leverag-
ing GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 as the backbone of all
agents, respectively. Compared to the multi-agent
framework MAC-SQL (Wang et al., 2024), MAG-
SQL+GPT-3.5 achieves 57.62% in execution accu-
racy which is much higher than 50.56% of MAC-
SQL+GPT-3.5 on BIRD, while MAG-SQL+GPT-4
reaches 61.08% compared with 57.56% for MAC-
SQL+GPT-4 and 46.35% for vanilla GPT-4.
In summary, our contributions are as follows:
• We propose MAG-SQL, an advanced multi-
agent generative approach for Text-to-SQL,
comprising Soft Schema Linker, Targets-
Conditions Decomposer, Sub-SQL Generator
and Sub-SQL Refiner.
• We design a novel Soft Schema Linker with
a new Entity-based Schema Linking Method
and some useful components which are em-
ployed for Table Summarization and Value
Retrieval.
• We present a new approach called Targets-
Condition Decomposition to decompose Nat-
ural Language Queries into a sequence of Sub-
queries.
• We construct an Iterative Generating Module
which involves a Sub-SQL Generator and a
Sub-SQL Refiner, which introduces the su-
pervision and correction of Sub-SQL at each
intermediate step in the generation process.
• We evaluate MAG-SQL on the BIRD dataset
and conduct series of ablation experiments,
which demonstrates the superiority of our
method.
2
2
Related Work
Text-to-SQL has been a popular task in the NLP
community, and the development of the technology
associated with this task has also gone through
several different phases. Early work for this task
(Zelle and Mooney, 1996) automated the process
of parsing database query by using inductive logic
programming, but required heavy human efforts.
With the development of deep learning, the use
of neural networks for Text-to-sql parsing made a
noticeable progress. Sequence-to-sequence model
(Sutskever et al., 2014) implements the mapping
of input sequences to output sequences through an
encoder-decoder structure, and achieves even better
performance since the introduction of the attention
mechanism (Vaswani et al., 2017).
Over the past few years, encoders and decoders
have received various improvements respectively
(Qin et al., 2022). IRNet (Guo et al., 2019) used bi-
directional LSTM to encode the question and used
self-attention mechanism to encode the database
schema, along with a decoder to generate the inter-
mediate representation called SemQL query. SQL-
Net (Xu et al., 2017) first proposed the sketch-
based decoding method and performed well on
the WikiSQL (Zhong et al., 2017) dataset. Due to
the superior performance of pre-trained language
models (PLMs) on multiple Natural Language Pro-
cessing (NLP) tasks, SQLova (Hwang et al., 2019)
first used BERT as the encoder and achieve human
performance in WikiSQL dataset.
To better capture the relationship between the
database schema, RAT-SQL (Wang et al., 2020)
construct the encoder with the relation-aware self-
attention mechanism, which broke new ground on
the Spider (Yu et al., 2018) dataset. Furthermore,
SADGA (Cai et al., 2021) and LGESQL (Cao et al.,
2021) utilized graph neural network to encode the
relational structure between the database schema
and a given question. To enhance sketch-based de-
coding method, RYANSQL (Choi et al., 2021) em-
ployed convolutional neural network (CNN) with
dense connection (Yoon et al., 2018) to encode
each word of question and columns, and SDSQL
(Binyuan et al., 2021) presented the Schema De-
pendency guided method to substitute previous
execution-guided (EG) decoding strategy (Wang
et al., 2018).
These traditional methods cannot achieve hu-
man performance on the Spider (Yu et al., 2018)
testing dataset. After the large language models
(LLMs) have proved to be powerful in most of
the NLP tasks, the text-to-SQL abilities of LLMs
are evaluated on multiple benchmarks (Rajkumar
et al., 2022). Early LLM based methods includ-
ing QDecomp (Tai et al., 2023), C3 (Dong et al.,
2023), QDMR (Wolfson et al., 2021) and DIN-SQL
(Pourreza and Rafiei, 2023) focused on the strat-
egy for task decomposition and reasoning, such
as Chain of Thoughts (CoT) (Wei et al., 2022),
least-to-most prompting (Zhou et al., 2022) and
self-correction. To enhance the Text-to-SQL ability
of LLM with In-context few-shot Learning (Brown
et al., 2020), DAIL-SQL (Gao et al., 2023) pro-
posed a new prompt engineering method based
on question representation, demonstration selec-
tion and demonstration organization. Additionally,
DTS-SQL (Pourreza and Rafiei, 2024) and CodeS
(Li et al., 2024a) explored the potential of open
source LLMs via supervised fine-tuning. Beyond
those end-to-end generation methods, DEA-SQL
(Xie et al., 2024) and MAC-SQL (Wang et al.,
2024) adopted multi-agent framework or work-
flow paradigm to deal with complex databases and
difficult problems such as BIRD dataset(Li et al.,
2024b).
3
Methodology
As shown in Figure 2, our proposed framework
consists of four Agents: Soft Schema Linker,
Targets-Conditions Decomposer, Sub-SQL Gen-
erator and Sub-SQL Refiner. Among them, the
Sub-SQL Generator and Sub-SQL Refiner together
form the Iterative Generating Module.
Concretely, Soft Schema Linker performs soft
column selection on the large database schema to
reduce the amount of irrelevant information be-
ing described, while the Targets-Conditions De-
composer divides the question into a series of sub-
questions. After that, the Sub-SQL Generator gen-
erates Sub-SQL for the current Sub-question each
time based on the previous Sub-question and the
previous Sub-SQL. Meanwhile, the Sub-SQL Re-
finer employs an external tool for Sub-SQL execu-
tion to get the feedback, and then refines incorrect
SQL queries. The details of these agents will be
introduced in the following sections.
3.1
Soft Schema Linker
Aiming to filter the large database schema and pro-
vide helpful information for SQL generator, the
task of Soft Schema Linker can be divided into 5
3
parts: Schema Representation, Table Summariza-
tion, Value Retrieval, Entity-based Schema Linking
and Soft Schema Construction .
3.1.1
Schema Representation
Before further analysis and processing of the
database schema, we need to determine the
database schema representation method. We se-
rialise the information from a table into a list, and
each item in the list is a tuple representing the in-
formation of a column. For each column, there is
column name, data type, column description and
value examples. Besides, primary keys and foreign
keys also need to be listed additionally because of
their importance. Therefore, the complete database
schema of a specific database can be represented
as:
S = T1 : [C1
1, . . . Cn
1 ]| . . . |Tm : [C1m, . . . Cnm]; KP ; KF ;
(1)
Cn
m = (Nn
m < dn
m >, Dn
m, V n
m)
(2)
where Tm indicate the m-th table in this database,
Cn
m denote the n-th column in Tm. As for each
column, Nn
m is its name, < dn
m > is its data type
such as INTEGER, Dn
m is its description, and V n
m
is the list of value examples in this column.
3.1.2
Table Summarization
In previous work, LLM was expected to select use-
ful columns directly based on the relevance of each
column to the natural language question. However,
this could lead to a consequence that LLM is prone
to errors if two or more columns in different tables
have similar names, descriptions, and stored val-
ues. In reality, when SQL engineers see a table,
they will first make a summary of the information
stored in this table based on the columns in this
table. And after seeing the question, they will find
the most suitable table according to the specific
needs at the first time, and then pick the correspond-
ing columns. Therefore, we propose an extra step
called Table Summarization, let LLM first make
a summary of the information in each table, and
then prompt LLM with both the summary and the
complete database schema for column selection.
We ask LLM to respond in the JSON format, as
described in Figure 3.
3.1.3
Value Retrieval
Since LLM can’t browse tables directly, LLM may
select the incorrect columns when values of TEXT
type appear in natural language questions, such as
Figure 3: Output Format of the Summary
names of people, places, and other items. For ex-
ample, for the question "Please list the zip code of
all the charter schools in Fresno County Office of
Education", the value "Fresno County Office of Ed-
ucation" is in the column <District Name>. How-
ever, LLM is only able to know ‘Fresno County
Office of Education’ is a place name, which make
it difficult to select the right one out of the mul-
tiple columns describing place names. In our ex-
periment, LLM prefers to treat this value as the
value of the column <County> instead of <District
Name>. If LLM is provided with matched database
content, the possibility of chosing the correct col-
umn is greatly increased. In this work, we use
longest common substring (LCS) algorithm to re-
trived question-related values from database. We
only apply this algorithm on data of text type and
finally linearise the matched data and values to
text, here is an example: frpm.‘District Name‘=
’Fresno County Office of Education’;
3.1.4
Entity-based Schema Linking
Since the columns in the SQL query statement and
the entities in the natural language problem are
one-to-one mapping, we present the Entity-based
Schema Linking in order to achieve fine-grained
column selection. The chain of thought approach
is used to prompt LLM to complete the following
steps:
• Extract the entities from the natural language
question.
• Analyses the relevance based on Summary,
Database schema and Hints.
• For each entity, find at least three most rele-
vant columns (top3 columns sorted by rele-
vance), and then write this result into JSON
format which is displayed in Figure 4:
4
Figure 4: Output Format of Linked Schema
3.1.5
Soft Schema Construction
In Text-to-SQL tasks, the database schema can
be very large, but only a small percentage of the
columns are really needed to be used. Besides,
providing detailed information for all columns is
costly, not to mention that irrelevant information
will cause disturbance. Therefore, we need to pre-
process the database schema, keeping only the in-
formation about useful columns. There are two
approaches for columns selection, soft column
selection and hard column selection (Sun et al.,
2023). Soft column selection keep entire schema
but add additional detailed descriptions for selected
columns, while hard column selection removes all
non-selected columns and retains the details of the
chosen columns. In our work, we choose soft col-
umn selection because this method is able to re-
duce the length of the prompt while allowing the
model to have access to the entire database schema,
and we mark the additional information of the cho-
sen columns as Detailed description of tables and
columns. Figure 5 is an example of the whole soft
schema which is constructed after schema linking:
Figure 5: Example of Soft Schema
3.2
Targets-Conditions Decomposer
Given the increasing complexity of natural lan-
guage questions in Text-to-SQL tasks, generating
SQL query in one step is not an good option. There-
fore, recent work decompose a complex question
into a series of sub-questions before solving them
step by step. Nevertheless, previous work just gives
LLM some (Question, Sub-questions) pairs as ex-
amples, and does not propose a decomposition cri-
terion, which may lead to inconsistent granularity
of question decomposition. In a word, the essence
of question decomposition in Text-to-SQL tasks is
ignored.
Therefore, we propose a Targets-Conditions
Decomposition method, which ensures that all
questions are decomposed according to the same
criteria. This approach is based on the fact that
all queries can be decomposed into the targets
to be queried and the conditions used to filter the
targets, including natural language questions in
text-to-SQL task. Besides, the decomposition idea
of Least-to-most Prompting proved to be effective
in Text-t-SQL tasks, and this idea is also used in
our method.
Figure 6: The Targets-Conditions Decomposer Agent
As shown in Figure 6, each sub-question is ob-
tained by adding a condition to the previous sub-
question except for the first one, while the first
question is composed of targets and the first condi-
tion.
3.3
Sub-SQL Generator
As one of the most important Agents in our frame-
work, the Sub-SQL Generator predicts Sub-SQL
for the current Sub-question based on the previous
Sub-question and the previous Sub-SQL. When
processing the first Sub-question, it will generate
the first Sub-SQL directly. The purpose of this
design is to allow the generator to add only one
condition at a time to the previous Sub-SQL, which
greatly reduces the difficulty of reasoning. In or-
der to avoid the accumulation of errors that can be
caused by previous incorrect Sub-SQL, we use the
5
Figure 7: Prompt Template of Sub-SQL Generator
Sub-SQL Refiner to introduce intermediate super-
vision for the entire generation process.
As a Text-to-SQL dataset close to real-world
applications, BIRD (Li et al., 2024b) highlights
the new challenges of dirty and noisy database val-
ues, external knowledge grounding between NL
questions and database values. Therefore, a wide
variety of complex information will be put into the
prompt, which poses a challenge for LLM to gen-
erate SQL query through in-context learning. To
help LLM better understand and utilise the vari-
ous pieces of information in the prompt, we adopt
the CoT prompting method to explicitly take infor-
mation from different parts of the prompt in the
reasoning steps. The complete Prompt template for
Sub-SQL Generaotr is shown in Figure 7, and the
Chain of Thoughts example we provided is shown
in Figure 9.
3.4
Sub-SQL Refiner
Since LLMs proved to have strong self-refine abil-
ity, we disign the Sub-SQL Refiner to correct the
Sub-SQL with the feedback obtained after execut-
ing the Sub-SQL. If the currently processed Sub-
question is not the last one, then the Sub-SQL cor-
rected by the Refiner is returned to the Generator
and used to generate the next Sub-SQL. Thus, Sub-
SQL Generator and Sub-Refiner work together to
form the Iterative Generating Module, allowing ev-
ery intermediate step of the generating process to
be supervised and calibrated.
Figure 8: The Sub-SQL Refiner Agent
As shown in Figure 8, after receiving the gener-
ated Sub-SQL, the Refiner will employ an execu-
tion tool to test the Sub-SQL’s execution feasibil-
ity. If the Sub-SQL can be executed successfully,
the Refiner should determine whether the result
retrieved from the database is empty or not, and
then a null value detection will be performed. If the
executable test is not passed, the Sub-SQL will be
corrected by LLM based on the error information.
Then the modified SQL statement will go through
execution test again, and if it still fails the test, the
process will be repeated until the result is correct
or the maximum number of corrections is reached.
6
Figure 9: (a) The left image illustrates the CoT used to solve the first Sub-question, (b) The right image illustrates
the CoT used for the other Sub-questions
4
Experiments
4.1
Experimental Setup
4.1.1
Datasets
Spider (Yu et al., 2018) is a large-scale, complex
and cross-domain dataset which is widely used as a
basic benchmark for Text-to-SQL, including 10,181
questions and 5,693 queries across 200 databases.
Since earlier work had achieved near-human level
results on Spider, we chose to focus on more diffi-
cult datasets. The recently proposed BIRD dataset
(Li et al., 2024b) is a challenging benchmark in-
cluding 95 large-scale real databases with dirty val-
ues, containing 12,751 unique question-SQL pairs.
Compared with Spider, BIRD comprises more com-
plex SQL queries and introduces external knowl-
edge.
4.1.2
Metrics
Execution Accuracy (EX)
EX indicates the cor-
rectness of the execution result of the predicted
SQL. This metric takes into account different SQL
representations for the same question, allowing for
a more reasonable and accurate measurement of
the results.
Valid Efficiency Score (VES)
VES is a new met-
ric introduced by BIRD dataset, measuring the effi-
ciency of a valid SQL query based on the execution
time. Our method also achieves an improvement
in VES, but we do not include it in the experimen-
tal analyses because this metric is susceptible to
environmental effects.
4.2
Baselines
We compare the proposed MAG-SQL approach
with the following baselines based on In-context
Learning methods with GPT-4:
GPT-4 (Achiam et al., 2023)
uses the zero-shot
prompt for Text-to-SQL task.
DIN-SQL (Pourreza and Rafiei, 2023)
adopts
task decomposition and applies different prompts
for task with different complexity.
The self-
correction ability of LLM is also used in DIN-SQL.
DAIL-SQL (Gao et al., 2023)
focuses on ques-
tion representation, demonstration selection and
demonstration organization.
MAC-SQL (Wang et al., 2024)
first employs
multi-agent framework to solve Text-to-SQL task
based on three agents.
4.3
Results and Analysis
4.3.1
BIRD Results
Since the test set of the BIRD benchmark is not
available, we evaluated MAG-SQL on the dev set.
Especially, we assessed our approach using both
GPT-4 and GPT-3.5. As indicated in Table 1, MAG-
SQL achieved significant performance gains on the
BIRD dataset.
Method
BIRD dev
MAG-SQL + GPT-4
61.08
MAG-SQL + GPT-3.5
57.62
MAC-SQL + GPT-4
57.56
DAIL-SQL + GPT-4
54.76
DIN-SQL + GPT-4
50.72
MAC-SQL + GPT-3.5
50.56
GPT-4
46.35
Table 1: BIRD results
It can be noticed that the result of MAG-SQL is
3.52% better than that of MAC-SQL when using
GPT-4 as backbone, with a 14.73% performance
7
Method
Simple
Moderate
Challenging
All
MAG-SQL + GPT3.5
65.94
46.24
40.97
57.62
w/o Soft Schema Linker
62.05
39.78
36.81
52.93
w/o Decomposer
64.86
44.08
33.33
55.60
w/o Sub-SQL Refiner
57.73
34.41
32.64
48.31
Table 2: Execution accuracy of MAG-SQL on BIRD dev set in agents ablation study
Method
Simple
Moderate
Challenging
All
MAG-SQL + GPT3.5
65.94
46.24
40.97
57.62
w/o Table Summarization
64.21
45.81
38.89
56.26
w/o Value Retrieval
64.00
45.37
38.19
55.93
Table 3: Execution accuracy of MAG-SQL on BIRD dev set in Soft Schema Linker’s components ablation study
improvement over using a single GPT-4. Moreover,
MAG-SQL + GPT-3.5 has outperformed MAC-
SQL + GPT-4, attaining the highest performance
among all previous methods based on GPT-3.5,
which proves that our method can greatly stimulate
the potential of LLMs.
4.3.2
Spider Results
To demonstrate the generalisability of our approach,
we also evaluated MAG-SQL on the Spider dataset.
Without any modification, MAG-SQL obtained
11.9% improvement over GPT-4 (zero-shot), which
proves the robustness of our method. However,
since the Spider dataset lacks column description
and external knowledge that would occur in real life
problems, many components in MAG-SQL don’t
work, and the CoT templates and demonstrations
in our prompt differ a little from the data in Spi-
der. Therefore, our method do not reach its full
potential on the Spider dataset without adjustments.
Method
Spider dev
Spider test
MAG-SQL + GPT-4
85.3
85.6
MAC-SQL + GPT-4
86.8
82.8
DAIL-SQL + GPT-4
84.4
86.6
DIN-SQL + GPT-4
82.8
85.3
GPT-4 (zero-shot)
73.4
-
Table 4: Spider results
4.3.3
Ablation Study
Agents Ablation
Table 2 presents the execution
accuracy (EX) on BIRD dev set across various dif-
ficulty levels, where different agents are removed.
Specifically, for the experiment of MAG-SQL with-
out Targets-Conditions Decomposer, not only did
we omit the Decomposer, but we also changed the
iterative generating module to a one-time gener-
ating module and modified the prompt with CoT
to keep it consistent. The findings show that each
agent in MAG-SQL is important for performance
enhancement, as removing any of them will result
in decreased accuracy across all difficulty levels.
Components Ablation
In MAG-SQL, the work
of Soft Schema Linker consists of four parts:
Table Summarization, Value Retrieval, Entity-
based Schema Linking and Soft Schema Construc-
tion. Since Entity-based Schema Linking and Soft
Schema Construction are indispensable, we con-
ducted the ablation experiments of the components
in Soft Schema Linker by omitting Table Summa-
rization or Value Retrieval. As reported in Table
3, every component plays a positive role in the
process of schema linking.
5
Conclusion
In this paper, we propose a novel multi-agent gen-
erative approach for effecient Text-to-SQL, with
different agents performing their respective roles.
Concretely, our workflow consists of four LLM-
based agents, which provides new ideas for schema-
linking, question decomposition, SQL generation
and SQL correction.
We have conducted fine-
grained task decomposition and detailed task plan-
ning for Text-to-SQL, which fully unleashes the
potential of LLMs. With equivalent model configu-
rations, our approach achieves better performance
on the BIRD dataset than all previous work at the
time of writing this paper. Moreover, the results
achieved by using GPT-3.5 as the backbone of our
method have approached or even surpassed those
of some previous GPT-4 based methods.
8
6
Limitations
Although our approach has achieved significant
improvements on the Text-to-SQL task, there is
still a gap compared to human performance. Every
agent in our method could benefit from further
improvements. Besides, there are three limitations
in our work.
Single
closed-source
backbone
Currently,
MAG-SQL is implemented based on a closed-
source LLM, and the results are likely to be further
improved if we use open-source domain-specific
LLMs instead of closed-source general LLMs.
For instance, the Sub-SQL Generator could be
replaced with an open-source LLM that have been
fine-tuned to generate SQL statements.
Fixed Workflow
We have pre-defined the work-
flow of MAG-SQL, thus the pipeline is fixed dur-
ing the whole process, which reduces the flexibil-
ity of the multi-agent framework. In the future,
we hope to implement a multi-agent system that
can autonomously plan tasks and dynamically in-
voke various tools. Moreover, we believe that the
multi-agent collaboration mechanisms can be fur-
ther optimised by methods such as reinforcement
learning.
Unstable Output
There is another phenomenon
to be aware of. Since the output of the LLM is
probability-based and not stable, it is often the case
that for the same instance, the LLM can get it right
one time and wrong the next time. One current
solution is using a large number of samples from
LLMs, but this approach is costly, and if there is a
better solution to this problem, then the final result
will achieve a significant breakthrough. We leave
this for future work.
References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Hui Binyuan, Xiang Shi, Ruiying Geng, Binhua Li,
Yongbin Li, Jian Sun, and Xiaodan Zhu. 2021. Im-
proving text-to-sql with schema dependency learning.
Cornell University - arXiv,Cornell University - arXiv.
T.B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Askell
Amanda, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss,
Gretchen Krueger, Henighan Tom, Rewon Child,
A. Ramesh, DanielM. Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens
Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, EricJ. Sigler,
Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Chess Benjamin, Jack
Clark, Christopher Berner, McCandlish Sam, Alec
Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020.
Language models are few-shot learners. arXiv: Com-
putation and Language,arXiv: Computation and Lan-
guage.
Ruichu Cai, Jinjie Yuan, Boyan Xu, and Zhifeng Hao.
2021. Sadga: Structure-aware dual graph aggrega-
tion network for text-to-sql. Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems,Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems.
Ruisheng Cao, Lu Chen, Zhi Chen, Yanbin Zhao,
Su Zhu, and Kai Yu. 2021. Lgesql: Line graph en-
hanced text-to-sql model with mixed local and non-
local relations. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics and the 11th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long
Papers).
DongHyun Choi, Myeong Cheol Shin, EungGyun Kim,
and Dong Ryeol Shin. 2021. Ryansql: Recursively
applying sketch-based slot fillings for complex text-
to-sql in cross-domain databases. Computational
Linguistics, page 1–24.
Xuemei Dong, Chao Zhang, Yuhang Ge, Yuren Mao,
Yunjun Gao, Jinshu Lin, Dongfang Lou, et al. 2023.
C3:
Zero-shot text-to-sql with chatgpt.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.07306.
Dawei Gao, Haibin Wang, Yaliang Li, Xiuyu Sun,
Yichen Qian, Bolin Ding, and Jingren Zhou. 2023.
Text-to-sql empowered by large language mod-
els:
A benchmark evaluation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.15363.
Jiaqi Guo, Zecheng Zhan, Yan Gao, Yan Xiao, Jian-
Guang Lou, Ting Liu, and Dongmei Zhang. 2019. To-
wards complex text-to-sql in cross-domain database
with intermediate representation.
arXiv: Compu-
tation and Language,arXiv: Computation and Lan-
guage.
Wonseok Hwang, Jinyeung Yim, Seung-Hyun Park, and
Minjoon Seo. 2019. A comprehensive exploration
on wikisql with table-aware word contextualization.
Cornell University - arXiv,Cornell University - arXiv.
Dongjun Lee, Choongwon Park, Jaehyuk Kim, and
Heesoo Park. 2024. Mcs-sql: Leveraging multiple
prompts and multiple-choice selection for text-to-sql
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.07467.
Haoyang Li, Jing Zhang, Hanbing Liu, Ju Fan, Xi-
aokang Zhang, Jun Zhu, Renjie Wei, Hongyan Pan,
Cuiping Li, and Hong Chen. 2024a. Codes: Towards
building open-source language models for text-to-sql.
Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data,
2(3):1–28.
9
Jinyang Li, Binyuan Hui, Ge Qu, Jiaxi Yang, Binhua
Li, Bowen Li, Bailin Wang, Bowen Qin, Ruiying
Geng, Nan Huo, et al. 2024b. Can llm already serve
as a database interface? a big bench for large-scale
database grounded text-to-sqls. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 36.
Mohammadreza Pourreza and Davood Rafiei. 2023.
Din-sql: Decomposed in-context learning of text-
to-sql with self-correction. NeurIPS 2023.
Mohammadreza Pourreza and Davood Rafiei. 2024.
Dts-sql: Decomposed text-to-sql with small large
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.01117.
Bowen Qin, Binyuan Hui, Lihan Wang, Min Yang,
Jinyang Li, Binhua Li, Ruiying Geng, Rongyu Cao,
Jian Sun, Luo Si, et al. 2022. A survey on text-to-sql
parsing: Concepts, methods, and future directions.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.13629.
Nitarshan Rajkumar, Raymond Li, and Dzmitry Bah-
danau. 2022.
Evaluating the text-to-sql capabil-
ities of large language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2204.00498.
Ruoxi Sun, Sercan Ö Arik, Alex Muzio, Lesly Miculi-
cich, Satya Gundabathula, Pengcheng Yin, Hanjun
Dai, Hootan Nakhost, Rajarishi Sinha, Zifeng Wang,
et al. 2023.
Sql-palm: Improved large language
model adaptation for text-to-sql (extended). arXiv
preprint arXiv:2306.00739.
Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and QuocV. Le. 2014. Se-
quence to sequence learning with neural networks.
arXiv: Computation and Language,arXiv: Computa-
tion and Language.
Chang-You Tai, Ziru Chen, Tianshu Zhang, Xiang Deng,
and Huan Sun. 2023. Exploring chain-of-thought
style prompting for text-to-sql.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.14215.
Shayan Talaei, Mohammadreza Pourreza, Yu-Chen
Chang, Azalia Mirhoseini, and Amin Saberi. 2024.
Chess: Contextual harnessing for efficient sql synthe-
sis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.16755.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, AidanN. Gomez, Lukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017.
Attention is
all you need. Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems,Neural Information Processing Systems.
Bailin Wang, Richard Shin, Xiaodong Liu, Oleksandr
Polozov, and Matthew Richardson. 2020. Rat-sql:
Relation-aware schema encoding and linking for text-
to-sql parsers. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Bing Wang, Changyu Ren, Jian Yang, Xinnian Liang, Ji-
aqi Bai, Linzheng Chai, Zhao Yan, Qian-Wen Zhang,
Di Yin, Xing Sun, et al. 2024. Mac-sql: A multi-
agent collaborative framework for text-to-sql. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2312.11242.
Chenglong
Wang,
Kedar
Tatwawadi,
Marc
Brockschmidt, Po-Sen Huang, Yi Mao, Olek-
sandr Polozov, and Rishabh Singh. 2018. Robust
text-to-sql generation with execution-guided de-
coding. arXiv: Computation and Language,arXiv:
Computation and Language.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou,
et al. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits rea-
soning in large language models. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 35:24824–24837.
Tomer Wolfson, Daniel Deutch, and Jonathan Be-
rant. 2021. Weakly supervised text-to-sql parsing
through question decomposition.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.06311.
Yuanzhen Xie, Xinzhou Jin, Tao Xie, MingXiong Lin,
Liang Chen, Chenyun Yu, Lei Cheng, ChengXiang
Zhuo, Bo Hu, and Zang Li. 2024. Decomposition
for enhancing attention: Improving llm-based text-
to-sql through workflow paradigm. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.10671.
Xiaojun Xu, Chang Liu, and Dawn Song. 2017. Sqlnet:
Generating structured queries from natural language
without reinforcement learning. Cornell University -
arXiv,Cornell University - arXiv.
Deunsol Yoon, Dongbok Lee, and SangKeun Lee. 2018.
Dynamic self-attention: Computing attention over
words dynamically for sentence embedding. arXiv:
Learning,arXiv: Learning.
Tao Yu, Rui Zhang, Kai Yang, Michihiro Yasunaga,
Dongxu Wang, Zifan Li, James Ma, Irene Li, Qingn-
ing Yao, Shanelle Roman, Zilin Zhang, and Dragomir
Radev. 2018. Spider: A large-scale human-labeled
dataset for complex and cross-domain semantic pars-
ing and text-to-sql task. In Proceedings of the 2018
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing.
JohnM. Zelle and RaymondJ. Mooney. 1996. Learning
to parse database queries using inductive logic pro-
gramming. National Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence,National Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
Victor Zhong, Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher.
2017. Seq2sql: Generating structured queries from
natural language using reinforcement learning. Cor-
nell University - arXiv,Cornell University - arXiv.
Denny Zhou, Nathanael Schärli, Le Hou, Jason Wei,
Nathan Scales, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans,
Claire Cui, Olivier Bousquet, Quoc Le, et al. 2022.
Least-to-most prompting enables complex reason-
ing in large language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2205.10625.
10
A
Prompts
A.1
Prompt of Entity-based Schema Linking
As an experienced and professional database manager, your task is to analyze a user question
and a database schema to select relevant information. The database schema consists of
table descriptions, each containing multiple column descriptions. Your goal is to extract the
entities from question and identify the relevant tables and columns based on these entities
and the evidence provided.
##Instruction:
1. Extract the mentioned entities from the user question. Make sure all of the entities are
extracted.
2. For each entity, keep at least 3 related columns.
4. Your output should include entity extraction, analysis and related database schema.
5. The related database schema should be in JSON format.
6. Each column’s information in provided [Schema] is in this format: (column, description.
Value examples<optional>)
##Requirements:
1. Sort the related columns in each list corresponding to each entity in descending order of
relevance.
2. The chosen columns should be in this format: <table.column>.
3. Make sure each chosen list is not empty. The value [] will be punished.
4.[Matched values] may contain redundant or useless information in addition to the correct
matching values, so you need to select the useful information in conjunction with the specific
column names and descriptions.
5. An entity may not have a corresponding evidence, which requires you to find the relevant
columns yourself through your understanding of the database schema.
Here is a new example, please start answering:
[DB_ID]
[Schema]
[Primary keys]
[Foreign keys]
[Question]
[Evidence]
[Matched values]
Since some of the specific values in Question and evidence match the data in the database,
here are some matches retrieved from the database that may help you in selecting columns
(You need to ignore matches that are not relevant to the question):
[Answer]
Table 5: Instruction of Entity-based Schema Linking
11
Figure 10: ICL example of Entity-based Schema Linking
12
A.2
Prompt of Table Summarization
##instruction
Given the database schema, you need to summarise the data stored in each table in one
sentence, based on the name of the table and the columns in the table.
##Requirements
- Your output should be in json format
- The Summary of each table is supposed to be expressed in one sentence
Here is a new case:
[DB_ID]
[Schema]
[Summary]
Table 6: Instruction of Table Summarization
A.3
Prompt of Targets-Conditions Decomposition
##Instruction
Given a [query], you need to understanding the intent of Query, and then deceompose
it into Targets and Conditions. Then you need to combine Targets and Conditions into
Subquerys step by step. For the case where Conditions is NULL, consider Targets as the
final Subquery directly. For the case where Conditions are not NULL, combine Targets
and the first Condition to get the first Subquery, then combine this Subquery and the next
Condition into a new Subquery until all Conditions are used (which means the content of the
last Subquery and the original Query is the same).
##Requirements
-Try not to overlap Targets and Conditions.
-Make sure the decomposed Target and Condition can cover all of the information in Query.
-Don’t change any information (specific value) in Query!
-Mark each Subquery with ## in front of it.
Here is a new query need to be decomposed:
[Query]
[Evidence]
[Decomposition]
Table 7: Instruction of Decomposition
13
Figure 11: ICL examples of Decomposition
14
A.4
Prompt of Sub-SQL Generation
Given a [Database schema] description, a knowledge [Evidence]and a [Question], you need
to use valid SQLite and understand the database and knowledge so that you can generate a
good SQL for the [Question]. When generating SQL, we should always consider constraints:
[Constraints]
- In ‘SELECT <column>‘, just select needed columns in the [Question] without any unneces-
sary column or value
- In ‘FROM <table>‘ or ‘JOIN <table>‘, do not include unnecessary table
- If use max or min func, ‘JOIN <table>‘ FIRST, THEN use ‘SELECT MAX(<column>)‘ or
‘SELECT MIN(<column>)‘
- If [Value examples] of <column> has ’None’ or None, use ‘JOIN <table>‘ or ‘WHERE
<column> is NOT NULL‘ is better
- If use ‘ORDER BY <column> ASC|DESC‘, add ‘GROUP BY <column>‘ before to select
distinct values
- If include more than one table, use ‘JOIN <table>‘
- If use ‘JOIN <table>‘, the connected columns should be in the [Foreign keys]
- If evidence gives a formula for calculating a value, try to use that formula
- If use ‘ORDER BY <column> ASC LIMIT <n>‘, please use ‘ORDER BY <column> ASC
NULLS LAST LIMIT <n>‘ to make sure the null values will not be selected
[Database schema]
[Primary keys]
[Foreign keys]
[Detailed descriptions of tables and columns]
[Evidence]
[Question]
[Matched values]
Since some of the specific values in Question and evidence match the data in the database,
here are some matches retrieved from the database that may help you to generate SQL
(Matched values may contain useless information and you should ignore matches that are
not relevant to the question):
Consider [Constraints], extract hints from [Evidence] if [Evidence] is related to the [Ques-
tion], select columns from [Database schema] and then generate SQL for [Question], you
need to think step by step:
Table 8: Instruction of First-step Generation
15
Figure 12: ICL examples of First-step Generation
16
Given a [Database schema] description, a knowledge [Evidence]and a [Question], you need
to use valid SQLite and understand the database and knowledge so that you can generate a
good SQL for the [Question]. When generating SQL, we should always consider constraints:
[Constraints]
- In ‘SELECT <column>‘, just select needed columns in the [Question] without any unneces-
sary column or value
- In ‘FROM <table>‘ or ‘JOIN <table>‘, do not include unnecessary table
- If use max or min func, ‘JOIN <table>‘ FIRST, THEN use ‘SELECT MAX(<column>)‘ or
‘SELECT MIN(<column>)‘
- If [Value examples] of <column> has ’None’ or None, use ‘JOIN <table>‘ or ‘WHERE
<column> is NOT NULL‘ is better
- If use ‘ORDER BY <column> ASC|DESC‘, add ‘GROUP BY <column>‘ before to select
distinct values
- If include more than one table, use ‘JOIN <table>‘
- If use ‘JOIN <table>‘, the connected columns should be in the [Foreign keys]
- If evidence gives a formula for calculating a value, try to use that formula
- If use ‘ORDER BY <column> ASC LIMIT <n>‘, please use ‘ORDER BY <column> ASC
NULLS LAST LIMIT <n>‘ to make sure the null values will not be selected
[Database schema]
[Primary keys]
[Foreign keys]
[Detailed descriptions of tables and columns]
[Evidence]
[Question]
[Subquestion]
[Sub-SQL]
[Matched values]
Since some of the specific values in Question and evidence match the data in the database,
here are some matches retrieved from the database that may help you to generate SQL
(Matched values may contain useless information and you should ignore matches that are
not relevant to the question):
[Subquestion] is decomposed from [Question], now we provide Sub-SQL corresponding
to Subquestion, you just need to complete the remaining conditions based on Sub-SQL
to generate SQL for [Question]. Consider [Constraints], extract hints from [Evidence] if
[Evidence] is related to the [Question], and then generate SQL after thinking step by step:
Table 9: Instruction of Next-step Generation
17
Figure 13: ICL examples of Next-step Generation
18
A.5
Prompt of Sub-SQL Refinement
[Instruction]
When executing SQL below, some errors occurred, please fix up SQL based on query and
database info. Solve the task step by step if you need to. Using SQL format in the code
block, and indicate script type in the code block. When you find an answer, verify the answer
carefully. Include verifiable evidence in your response if possible.
[Constraints]
- The SQL should start with ’SELECT’
- In ‘SELECT <column>‘, just select needed columns in the [Question] without any unneces-
sary column or value
- In ‘FROM <table>‘ or ‘JOIN <table>‘, do not include unnecessary table
- If use ‘JOIN <table>‘, the connected columns should be in the Foreign keys of [Database
schema]
[Response format]
Your response should be in this format:
Analysis:
**(Your analysis)**
Correct SQL:
“‘sql
(the fixed SQL)
“‘
[Attention]
Only SQL statements are allowed in (the fixed SQL), do not add any comments.
[Evidence]
[Query]
[Database info]
[Primary keys]
[Foreign keys]
[Detailed descriptions of tables and columns]]
[old SQL]
[SQLite error]
[Exception class]
Now please fixup old SQL and generate new SQL again. [correct SQL]
Table 10: Zero-shot prompt for general case
19
Figure 14: Additional examples for a special case
20
B
Packages List
Package name
Version
openai
0.28.1
pandas
2.2.2
protobuf
5.26.1
sql_metadata
2.11.0
sqlparse
0.5.0
tiktoken
0.5.2
tqdm
4.66.1
transformers
4.40.1
func_timeout
4.3.5
nltk
3.8.1
numpy
1.26.4
21
